Come on, you guys.
Dinner's hot.
(mark) what did you get?
Everybody's favorite -
polish food.
Oh...
All right,
I love polish food.
I went down
to hamtramick stan's.
You were supposed
to get pizza.
Anybody can get pizza.
You didn't.
That's 'cause on the way
to get the pizza,
I heard the call for kielbasa.
You know, the last time
you ate polish food,
you were up half the night.
And in the bathroom
the other half.
That's because I made
a pig out of myself. This time,
I didn't order so much.
These things
look great.
Oh... These are great.
Brad, you oughta try
the duck blood soup.
It's all right, dad. For lunch,
I had a chicken gut sandwich.
I hope you're not gonna
stuff yourself again.
Once you get started
on golabkis, it's hard
to put the brakes on.
It's not the brakes
I'm worried about,
it's your full tank of gas.
Oh. Ooh...
You awake?
No.
I think all those
golabkis I ate
Turned into
one big golabki.
It's wedged between my head
and my heinie, honey.
Go back to sleep.
I can't.
Do we have any of those
little minty, chalky,
Chewy stomach thingies?
There's the liquid stuff
downstairs.
Oh, would you
go get it for me?
I didn't overeat.
Why should I have to get up
in the middle of the night?
'cause in a second, you'll
want to be getting out of
this bed, anyway.
Oh, man.
(man) now, when performing
a vasectomy,
The first snip
is always critical.
Qué buena gente.
Bonito, el viejito.
Y aquel chavito,
pues tan requetechiquito.
Too sad.
(groans)
Does everybody know
what time it is?
(audience) "tool time"!
That's right. Binford tools
is proud to present
Tim "the tool man" taylor.
(cheering)
Last time, I promised
construction-site cooking.
That's why I invited
the guys at k&b construction
down here to the set.
Rock lannigan, dwayne hoover,
and pete bilker.
How you doing, pete?
Hi, tim.
Nice beard.
Well, thank you, tim.
I grew it because of al.
He's my hero.
Yeah, mine too.
Rock, what have you got
for us today?
Well, tim,
I'm a riveter.
I work way up
on the high steel,
And it makes it darn hard
to get a hot lunch up there,
But I've come up with
a quick and easy way
Of making a delicious
grilled-cheese sandwich.
Hear my stomach growling?
You're gonna
love this one, tim.
The fellas call it
"cheddar a la rock."
All right.
I use only sharp
wisconsin cheese,
Because after all,
In wisconsin,
cheese is cheese.
American cheese
from american cows.
(moos)
Look out!
I spread on
a generous dollop
of oleo
With my trowel,
Then I take the cheese
and I stick it between
the bread.
Good place for it.
And then I...
Tim, I kinda hate to give
this little secret away.
Come on, rock, let it go.
It's a tool time crowd.
(grunts)
(all grunt)
All right, all right.
Pete?
I sprinkle on a little
oregano for flavoring,
and then I fire it up.
What do you use
to heat that with?
That's the secret of cooking
on the job site.
I go straight for
my blowtorch.
That's
no ordinary blowtorch.
That's the binford 3000
turbo-ignition switch torch.
Yeah, you betcha, tim.
See the trick...
You gotta toast it
Nice and evenly
on both sides
So that you seal in that
delicious wisconsin flavor.
Try that, timmy.
It's hot!
Might wanna let that cheese
cool down a little bit there.
Oh, I remember that.
That thing
tasted terrible. Ooh...
I'm gonna finish
sanding that table now.
We've got our belt attached
with a rough grip,
And we wanna plug the thing in.
You wanna be sure
the trigger switch is not
locked in the "on" position.
Any idiot knows that, al.
Before we get gluing,
I want to introduce
binford's new miracle glue.
You might want to remind
viewers to be careful
when using this glue
Because it will bond
instantly to your skin.
Al, we learned
in the first grade
You're not supposed
to play with glue.
Well, I was just worried
about our viewers' welfare,
as well as your welfare.
Al, these negative thoughts
can hurt people on the job site.
I don't have
negative thoughts.
You do too.
No, I don't.
Do too.
Do not.
Do.
Not.
Maybe it would be better
if I just swept up here.
if you just swept up,
mr. Negativity.
Not.
Do.
You wanna set your laminate
securely on your shimmies,
front and back.
Jeez...
Al.
Al!
We'll be right back after these
messages from binford.
As you can see
by our mock-up here,
We've got our jack studs
in place.
Now we're gonna
put our header in.
So are you planning on using
a doubled-up 2 x 8?
No, I'm not, bob.
I'm thinking about using
that beefy boy over there,
A 4 x 8 big piece
of american doug fir.
Doug fir. Ok.
Folks, it's a good idea
to use your framing square
at this point in the job.
You wanna make sure
this header is level.
Excellent point.
There's nothing worse
than trying to hang a door
in an opening that isn't true.
How true, how true.
Al, I was gonna get to that.
Making their television debut
right here on tool time,
K&b and the boys
and janeen.
Rock, let's roll!
(♪ plays
"home improvement" theme)
♪ ba-ba da-ba
♪ ba-ba da-ba ba-da-da
♪ ba-da-da ba-da-da
ba-da-da-da
Come on, pete!
Take it, pete!
Whoo!
Al!
(ding)
Thank you!
Hi. Welcome to tool time.
As you can see,
our 1955 ranch home
Needs a lot of work,
especially the roof.
You wanna have
a professional examine
Any weak or discolored
areas like these
And make sure they're
properly attended to.
For now, we'll hop over these
to a safer area.
It's a little weak here.
You wanna avoid this area, too.
Aah!
Ow. That hurt
just looking at it again.
(al) I don't think
anyone did, tim.
Hey, what are you
doing up, honey?
Ever since you woke me,
I couldn't get back to sleep.
Oh, sorry.
What happened to your hair?
It looks horrible.
Well, excuse me.
I didn't know I had to dress
for your upset stomach.
Well, I won't look at you
that much.
Thank you.
I was starting to feast myself
on old tool times.
Speaking of feast,
are there any golabkis left?
If you
even think about a golabki,
I'm gonna file for a divorceki.
I wouldn't worry about
other guys looking at you
with your hair like that.
Will you watch some of these
tool times with me?
Well, I can't get back to sleep
any other way.
In order to get a new floor,
we lift off the old floor.
That's right.
And for that we can use
a simple basic scraper.
But that wouldn't be fun.
Let's use the dry-ice method.
Put dry ice down, and it lifts
asphalt tiles right up.
Actually, tim, uh...
Using dry ice, you'd need
an awful lot of dry ice
for that to work.
For once, al,
you're totally correct.
So what we'll do is,
we'll be using the...
(engine starts)
...The simple
basic scraper.
You can pick this up
at just about any
hardware store.
We'll be right back
after these messages
from binford tools.
Boy, there's a sport
with more power. Oh-oh.
Ho-ho-ho-ho.
That's right, tim.
But the secret
is to channel that power
through focus and concentration.
Two things I excel at.
Well, that and driving yourself
to the hospital while bleeding.
Are you saying
I couldn't break that board
with my head?
Well, tim,
he says it takes focus
and concentration.
I think we all know
which one of us has that.
You think you can
break this board
with your head?
Yes, I do.
Oh, really?
I don't think it's such
a good idea, al.
My show here, ok?
You're up to the challenge,
right, al?
It's all right.
Hai!
(cheering)
Tim, I don't think
you should try this.
Hey, quiet, quiet, please.
One thing you...
You've said enough.
You should know...
It's my show.
I can do this.
Hyah, godzilla!
I was gonna say
I have studied karate,
tim.
Buford tools...
W-w... Messages.
We have 'em.
We'll be right back.
Hi. Welcome to
this special edition
of tool time.
I'm tim "the tool man" taylor,
and you know my assistant al.
We're here at beautiful
memorial park, ready for
the big race with bob vila.
I've got this helmet cam,
so you'll see exactly
what I see.
Hey, bob, who do you think
is gonna win the race?
It's for charity.
The real winners
are the children.
Of course they are, bob.
The winners are the kids.
In second place, me.
In a distant third, bob.
Start your engines.
Ready?
One,
Two, three!
Nice mower, bob.
Thanks, tim.
I'd love to sit and chat,
but I gotta run.
Oh, boy!
Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Look out, buddy. Look out!
Look out! Look out!
Aah!
As you can see, I've got
three samples of wood
on the workbench.
I'll hand them to al
one at a time.
He claims he can tell us
what type of wood it is
just by smelling it.
We shall see.
Al borland,
name that wood.
Tim, that's hickory.
Can you believe it, ladies?
This man's single.
Second sample.
Al borland, name that wood.
Cedar.
Hah!
Wait...
Western red cedar.
You almost
messed that one up, al.
Well, I'm fighting off
a cold, tim.
Well, this next sample...
...Should be a little bit
more difficult to discern, al.
You might have to take
a big old whiff of this thing
to figure out what it is.
Well, I'm up to
the challenge, tim.
I certainly hope so, al.
Al borland,
name that wood.
Oh!
Well, it's... It's a hardwood
from the pacific northwest,
and...
Uhh.
Well, this particular piece
seems to have some type
of a fungus.
Uh, well, uh, uh...
Uhh. Let me
try this again.
Ohh!
I also have a helpful
household hint.
I'm going to show
the audience something
You don't ordinarily do
with a potato.
Keep the kids
away from the tv set.
Tim.
Here's a safe way
to take a broken bulb
from its socket.
You simply take a cut potato,
jam it into the socket,
twist...
And in minutes, you have
thousands of curly fries.
A wonderful snack
for tv time, movies...
Tim. Tim!
I doubted the razor,
but I gave it a chance.
Please do not mock my potato.
You say potato,
I say stupid.
Tim, this'll work. You twist
and pull the broken bulb
right out of the socket.
But first you must...
Jam it in the light.
...Unplug the lamp.
I'd like to introduce you
to binford's small line
of industrial magnets.
The minimag 100
is perfect for picking up
screws and nails.
It can pick up small tools
that have carelessly been
dropped behind the workbench,
Perhaps the fault
of a coworker.
And the minimag 2000.
Small but powerful. 10 pounds
will pick up 400 pounds.
This would suck the tin man
right through a keyhole.
Well, it was designed
to pick up sheet metal,
So you want to keep it
pointed... Tim.
No, no, just slide it.
Slide it down.
Tim.
Pretty powerful little thing,
isn't it?
(feedback)
Marv, pull it back!
Marv!
We'll be right back after
these messages from binford.
Wait a minute.
Get this rope here,
attach it here to my biner,
Then you can head down
towards that porta-potty
right down there.
Tim, be careful.
I don't know, al, I... Oh!
Aah!
(al) tim!
Are you all right?
Th - are you awake?
Jill?
(tim) can somebody
send me a magazine?
Uh, jill?
I'm just gonna make myself
a little kielbasa omelet,
With a hint of golabki.
Oh.
This is a good part.
This is great stuff.
To john q. Primitive man,
this was his source of fire.
They were trying to get a spark
to get the kindling moving.
You should be careful
because you could
start a fire.
Like I'm really gonna
Well, that's the... Tim.
Al, al, al...
Tim, you're on fire.
Indeed I am, al.
I've done this to teach
the kids out there
an important lesson.
Don't play with sticks.
They can put your eye out
or ignite your forearm.
Al, could you
help me out here?
I think we should
bid john farewell
in the tool time fashion -
A little tribute
to john binford
With a binford
21-nailgun salute.
Do you think this isn't
a little dangerous, tim?
No, wait. Warren,
the protective drop cloth,
please.
Have you tried this?
The drop cloth will collect
all of the nails.
Well, you've tried this?
Hold on, hold on, hold on.
Klaus,
some music, please.
(♪ plays "taps")
So long, johnny.
Look, tim,
just be careful.
Tim.
(music trails off)
Hey, that's all
of our show today.
I'm tim "the tool man" taylor.
I gotta get out of here.
Today, al and I
will be talking about fencing.
In order to do that,
I'm gonna need
my dueling dowel. Heidi?
Here you go, tim.
Thanks, heidi.
You're welcome.
En garde, big fella.
Come on, flannel man.
Tim.
Tim. Tim.
He's scared.
This is not the type of fencing
we're talking about.
Today, we'll be talking
about the classic...
To show some of the advantages
of soundproofing,
The crew and I got here early
and constructed a special room.
Heidi, my room, please.
This room will not only
protect you from the elements,
keep you warm,
But it's also
totally soundproof.
Here you go, tim.
Thank you, heidi.
Watch this. Can't hear a word.
It's so good.
Talking like this,
you walk in.
Hi, everybody.
It's great to be here.
My name's tim "the tool..."
(mouths)
Aah!
(applause)
That is truly amazing.
We did not hear a sound.
No, that's how it was designed.
You gotta try it.
Let yourself go.
It's great. Yeah.
Tim, can you hear me?
(mouths)
You can't hear me?
In that case,
I should be the host
of this show.
And another thing, that's
a stupid haircut you have.
And another thing...
♪ I am the very model
of a modern major general
♪ I've information vegetable,
animal and mineral
♪ I know
the kings of England
♪ and I quote
the fights historical
♪ from marathon to waterloo,
in order categorical ♪
Al.
Yes.
Yes?
Can you hear me?
I can hear you.
Think about that.
Major general borland.
Give a big tool time welcome
to the astronauts,
The crew of the endeavour
space shuttle.
(cheering)
Let's meet mission commander
dick covey.
How you doing, sir?
Very good, tim.
Well, dick supervised
the entire servicing
Of the hubble space telescope.
What's it like
working with tools
in outer space?
Well, tim, it's a lot like
using tools here on earth,
Except there's no gravity,
so you don't have to worry
About dropping a tool
on your foot.
Sounds like the perfect
working environment
for you, tim.
He's very funny.
Yeah. A regular
astro-nut.
Tim, it's pronounced
astro-naut.
Yeah, I know.
That was a little joke.
Oh, sorry.
I had no idea.
Wow! Tools from space.
What I wouldn't give to have
one of these on my shop wall.
That's a 3/8-inch drive
mctether ratchet.
They use this for playing
mctetherball out there.
And next, we have a...
Hey, where's my power tool
with the adjustable extension?
You guys probably forgot
to bring it.
No, I saw you
working with it earlier.
I wasn't working with it.
Yes, you were.
Tim, is this
what you're looking for?
Oh, that!
Heidi, where'd you find that?
Doesn't matter where
she found it.
It was in tim's locker.
(high-pitched)
well, I... See, I...
(normal voice)
I was gonna bring it back.
It was just... I thought...
Whoo.
Taylor, we're gonna
need this back too.
How did that
get in there?